Update concepts with CJEU Case C-413/23 P on relative anonymization (#88)
IHE/ITI.DeIdHandbook: input/pagecontent/concepts.md

  <figcaption><strong>Figure: Relationships between different concepts of de-identification</strong></figcaption>
</figure>
 

> The figure above illustrates the concept of de-identification across various levels and also the outcomes (identifiability) of each processes. De-Identifcatoin is the top level sitting above pseudonymization and anonymization. Pseudonymization,as a particular type of de-identification focusing on tranforming direct identifiers. It can be further break down to reversible pseudonymization and irreversible pseudonymization. Reversible pseudonymization generates Reversible-Pseudonymized data, and Irreversible pseudonymization produces Irreversibly Pseudonymized data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The figure above illustrates the concept of de-identification across various levels and also the outcomes (identifiability) of each process steps. De-Identification is the top level process above pseudonymization and anonymization. Pseudonymization is a particular type of de-identification focusing on transforming direct identifiers. The pseudonymization can be further categorized into reversible pseudonymization and irreversible pseudonymization. Reversible pseudonymization generates pseudonymized data that can be reidentified. Irreversible pseudonymization produces pseudonymized data that can no longer be reidentified at any time in the future. 
```

> Anonymization, depending on the risk level and the data recipient's capabilities, can be separated into anonymization with non-negligible risk and anonymization with negligible risk processes. Critically, as established by CJEU Case C-413/23 P, anonymity is not absolute but relative—whether data is anonymous depends on the recipient's realistic ability to re-identify individuals, not the data custodian's. This means the same dataset may be considered personal data for one recipient but anonymous for another, depending on their respective access to re-identification means. Therefore, anonymization must be assessed from each data recipient's perspective. The outcome of anonymization with non-negligible risk, when viewed from the recipient's perspective, is still considered as Irreversibly Pseudonymized data. Only anonymization with negligible risk—where the recipient lacks realistic re-identification capability—generates anonymous data, which is deemed as non-personal information in modern privacy laws.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anonymization, depending on the risk level and the data recipient's capabilities, can be separated into anonymization with non-negligible risk and anonymization with negligible risk processes. Critically, as established by CJEU Case C-413/23 P, anonymity is not absolute but relative and the determination whether data is anonymous depends on the recipient's realistic ability to re-identify individuals, not the data custodian's. This means the same dataset may be considered personal data for one recipient but anonymous for another, depending on their respective access to re-identification means. Therefore, anonymization must be assessed from the data recipient's perspective. The outcome of anonymization with non-negligible risk, when viewed from the recipient's perspective, can still considered as Irreversibly Pseudonymized data. Only anonymization with negligible risk—where the recipient lacks realistic re-identification capability—generates anonymous data, which is deemed as non-personal information in modern privacy laws.
```

> Without specificity, sometimes, the term de-identification can be confusing, especially when addressing implementation for compliance purposes. To address this, this book adopts a more specific framework: reversible pseudonymization, irreversible pseudonymization, anonymization with non-negligible risk, and anonymization with negligible risk. These distinctions are applied especially in contexts where the level of identifiability or legal requirements must be precisely defined. Simultaneously, the book uses 'de-identification' as a general term when the specific level of identifiability is less critical, such as when outlining a general risk-based approach. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without specificity and knowledge of the recipient's capabilities, the term de-identification can be confusing, especially when targeting implementation for compliance purposes. To address this, this handbook adopts a more specific framework: reversible pseudonymization, irreversible pseudonymization, anonymization with non-negligible risk, and anonymization with negligible risk. These distinctions are applied especially in contexts where the level of identifiability or legal requirements must be precisely defined. Simultaneously, this handbook uses 'de-identification' as a general term when the specific level of identifiability is less critical, such as when outlining a general risk-based approach. 
```
